Dear teacher, I'd like to share a story with you.
I'm 27 years old and a student
studying in Germany. I have something that's making
me very sad, and I hope you can give me some
advice. I'm an introverted person who
likes to spend a lot of quiet time alone, so
since coming to Germany, I haven't had
many friends. At first, I felt
happy with my life, but after more than a
year, I started to feel lonely and
bored being alone all the time.
While I was feeling bored and lonely,
a man appeared. He's
20 years older than me, German, unmarried,
but has a son. After a few
meetings and conversations, he said he
liked me and wanted me to be his
girlfriend. I was very hesitant because of the age difference. I
also realized that there were
aspects of his personality that I didn't like at all,
but because I was bored, I thought I
could try dating him and get to know him better.
As time went on, I found him very
lovable and didn't feel the
age difference at all. I felt affection for him and
wanted to take care of him, and he also took
very meticulous care of me every time.  When we met, I
felt a sense of familiarity and closeness.
I once had a
feeling of déjà vu when I was with that person, a
feeling like I had experienced this before.
Another time, we were gardening together
and had dinner in the garden. In that
moment, I felt so happy and
peaceful.
I've only experienced that kind of happiness and peace three times in my life:
once when I was with my mother as a child,
once when I was alone, and the
third time when we were gardening together.
In that moment, I thought
I could give up my ambitions
to have this peaceful happiness.
However, we live in two
different cities, about two or three hours'
drive apart, so we don't see each other often.
When we're apart, I miss them terribly. But
that person doesn't text or contact
me, citing busyness or lack of time. When
I do text, they reply slowly and
curtly. Because of this, I always feel like I'm
not getting enough. I become
resentful and demanding, which makes them
even less talkative and less communicative, leaving my
mind confused and just spinning.  Obsessed with
the thought of how to get closer to that person,
the more I wanted to be close, the further apart we became. Eventually, I became
too tired of waiting and
decided to break up. We've
broken up several times already, but it's still not completely over.
Every time I see that person
post a sad status on Facebook,
I feel a sharp pain in my body and soul.
I feel a real pang in my chest. Everyone
says that this person isn't
good enough and doesn't love me enough, but
I still want to care for and look after
them. Although since getting involved in
this relationship, I've become
physically and mentally exhausted. I respectfully ask
for your advice. I thank you for
your kindness. Dear fellow practitioners, please
read the confessions of young people so that
we, when we have children, can understand our children better,
and so that young people can have
more insight into
male-female relationships. The phenomenon of "davu" is a
feeling of
familiarity, as if you've met someone somewhere before.
This phenomenon can occur in
dreams and in reality.  For example, when
I walk down this road,
I suddenly feel a strong sense of familiarity, as if
I've seen it somewhere before.
This is something that resides in
our subconscious mind from countless lifetimes. When
we leave a shocking imprint on
ourselves, that imprint is
deeply ingrained in us, and when we encounter
a similar scene,
we feel a sense of familiarity. So, dear fellow
practitioners, this person has experienced this
feeling of familiarity three times in their life.
This feeling leads people to
believe it will last forever and to wish for
that feeling to remain. The Buddha taught that
this is due to attachment; we forget the present moment.
We only see one person and
feel love for them for a fleeting
moment. We think that
we will experience that feeling for the rest of our lives.
This feeling leads us to
blindness. We must return to recognizing what is needed in
this life, in the present moment. In married life,
what is needed is
mutual care and concern. When sick or in pain, there
must be care and sharing.
If someone truly loves you, they will
build happiness with you. To build
happiness, they must give you
a direction for the future and your
life. They will come to you, or you will come to them, or
they will come
here every week. We will pool our money
together to do this and
that, to build a life for ourselves.
Yen also had a life, a
love, and experienced real married life.
When you're in love, your lover
immediately gives you money to prepare, to
contribute to, to buy a house. That means there must be
a plan for building
your future life, a clear
intention. Yen also bought a house
before getting married with money
given to her by her lover, which she managed. After managing the money,
she bought the house, and after buying the house, they got
married. That means there must be a
direction for you, not just a fleeting,
unrealistic love based on temporary feelings.
Today, people might criticize
you, but you don't think about
how they feel. You keep thinking about yesterday's feelings
and saying, "Why not?"  Yesterday I
loved you, but today I'm like this. Then she
replies, "The me of yesterday is different from me
now. The present is
different from yesterday. We have to deal with the
present situation, see where we went wrong and
correct it, see where we went wrong and
see if we can forgive. If we can forgive, then forgive;
if not, put it aside and talk to each other about it later, then
we'll live peacefully. But
if you continue like this, you have to
do this, and you will be happy.
You want to be with this person forever.
Plan for your girlfriend to make unconditional sacrifices.
You are the one who texts without needing a reply, you are the
one who cares without needing a
response. You will live with this person and
you will give everything you have, regardless of how much they
give you. It doesn't
matter. You will live with
this love because right now, as the
girlfriend, you don't even get to be cared for. If you marry someone, you'll
never get to pay attention to them. They'll be
sad when you're
sad, happy when you're happy. They'll make
you happy when you're sad—that's what you call true love.  If you
love someone and you love them, then you
should behave in a certain way to
call it love. This
is one-sided love, and you're saying
he's just using you as a game.
He occasionally posts about how you are on
Facebook. If it were truly
his feelings, he would be sad
when you're not around, not only when
you break up. But then he ignores your messages, only replying perfunctorily. When you're sad or sick, he doesn't care. Because you've always been introverted, you haven't received
much affection
from friends, and you haven't experienced much warmth from them. You haven't had many
relationships, so you don't
understand the true nature of
love. You can't feel the difference between a
person and someone who might not have experienced
many relationships, but they can
understand love
and find a good one. And that's why you shouldn't
care about him anymore.  This guy only cared about me on
a platonic level, just to be able to
communicate comfortably.
Later, he changed careers, and even then,
we could still change our
mindset. If we felt compatible, we could fall in
love. Even with a 20-year age difference, she said
that there are many differences in thinking
about life, and it's very
difficult, not easy at all. At
first,
you might feel it, but remember
this: older people
have lifestyles that are more
age-related. For example, Yen is
50 years old now; she doesn't like
noise and commotion, she doesn't like
frivolous things, she doesn't like that. But
young people like frivolous things.
If an older person listens to a young person
talking nonsense, they do
n't want to force it; they'll say it's rubbish, they'll
think, "
That's crazy," for example. Now, consider the relationship between parents and
children. Even their rambling conversations are
hard to listen to. So how can we...
Shouldn't you confide in each other? There's a
huge age difference. Why does the
guy confide less? Because of the age difference.
Things I talk about are
n't relevant to him anymore, and things
he does understand. For example, at 47, you're probably experiencing
aches and pains in your legs and bones,
right? Young people don't have these
problems. So, there's no
one to empathize with and talk to.
It's like there's something crawling inside
your bones, making you feel sad.
Now you're young and vibrant, and
he says, "My legs are aching, I'm feeling down and upset."
What are you talking about? When you're upset,
you don't want to listen to anyone else.
So, age differences have
many drawbacks. And
those guys who are chivalrous, well, their
chivalry can't
overcome their aging bodies; they're still
controlled by their old age. And honestly, I'll
tell you this: you
'll get bored with each other after you get married. This is a
secret: people
start to smell bad from around 40.  The smell of old people is
gone, it's not fragrant anymore. Living together is
very unpleasant. Because
old people have more dead skin,
their smell is different. That's why I
always avoid young people when I'm around them, because
the smell of old people is very different. Young people smell good,
old people smell bad.
Even after washing my face, it still smells bad,
right?
[Music]
Old people are terrible, so living together too
early is boring. Old people smell terrible, especially when they
breathe out that gut smell. When you're old, you tend to breathe out a lot of stuff, it's very disgusting. That's why
you get bored
quickly. There are so many
problems, right? A difference of 5-7 years is enough, 10,
11, 12 years is too much, right?
20 years is problematic.
Later on, it's very difficult to have romance when you're dating,
but it's not romantic when you get married. If you don't get married, there are
many problems. For example,
young people like to eat crispy food,
but when you get old, the crispiness hurts your teeth. So you lose it.  Even eating ca
n't be about having the same taste. Without shared tastes,
how can you share with each other?
Two old people cooking a pot of soup, they cook it until it's
soft, "Isn't it soft and easy to eat today?" The old
man says, "Yeah, that's right." But old people
eat vegetables, they eat them crunchy, they
cook them crunchy, and they say, "Today the vegetables are crunchy,
delicious, aren't they?" Crunchy? What crunchy? It
hurts my teeth! How can I eat like that? That's the lack of
sharing, so you don't share
many things with each other, right?
When you're in love, you only care about one
thing. Talking is
n't life. Life is
very different for two people. Old people
like to go to bed early, young people stay up
until 2 am and still don't feel like it's night.
Well, if a guy is too chivalrous, he'll be
exhausted. He'll stay up until about five in the morning,
so how can he have a long conversation? So, I'm
just saying this a little bit for everyone to think about, okay?
So, loving an old person isn't a
good thing.
[Applause]
[Music]  house
I